doc: spruce up user journey to local docs browsing (#34986)
nodejs/node: BUILDING.md

This will build Node.js first (if necessary) and then use it to build the docs:

```bash
make doc
```

If you have an existing Node.js build, you can build just the docs with:

```bash
NODE=/path/to/node make doc-only
```

To read the man page:

```bash
man doc/node.1
```

If you prefer to read the full documentation in a browser, run the following
after `make doc` is finished:

```bash
make docserve
```

> This will provided a URL where the documentation can be viewed in a browser.

Author: ```suggestion
This will provide you with a URL to where you may browse the documentation locally.
```

> This will provide you with a URL to where you may browse the documentation locally.

Author: ```suggestion
This will provide a URL to where you may browse the documentation locally.
```

> If you prefer to read the documentation as a one-page version of all the

Reviewer: I'm not sure this sentence is accurate, AFAIK `make docopen` let's you navigate all the docs, not just the one-page version.

Author: Well, it opens the one-page version. What makes this method unique? For me it pulls up Lynx text-based browser or something.

Author: Thinking about this a little bit more&hellip;

It's entirely possible that my `make docopen` simply opens the docs in one's _default browser_.

On Debian WSL my default is likely one of these text-based browsers which is why it is showing up the way that it is.

Refs: https://wiki.debian.org/WebBrowsers#Default_Web_Browser

Author: Now beginning to wonder if there is a point in having two similar methods of serving the docs:

- `docopen`: Opens in the default browser
- `docserve`: Starts static file web server and provides URL

@aduh95, what do you think? I personally have no use for `docopen`&hellip;

Reviewer: > It's entirely possible that my make docopen simply opens the docs in one's default browser.

Yes that's correct, see [`webbrowser` docs for reference](https://docs.python.org/3/library/webbrowser.html).

> what do you think? I personally have no use for docopen

I think we should keep it because it's been there forever (ade8cf96e0f19fab240b2a7fcf970e8b1d24d10b), removing it may disrupt collaborators habits without any upside.

following after `make doc` is finished:

```bash
make docopen
```

> This will open a text-based browser with the documentation in your terminal.

Reviewer 2: For me, `make docopen` opens my default system browser, not a text-based browser and not in my terminal. (I'm on macOS.) Probably best to leave the previous wording?

Author: Okay, will do.

This will build Node.js first (if necessary) and then use it to build the docs:

```bash
make doc
```

If you have an existing Node.js build, you can build just the docs with:

```bash
NODE=/path/to/node make doc-only
```

To read the man page:

```bash
man doc/node.1
```

> If you prefer to read the full documentation in a browser, run the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you prefer to read the full documentation in a browser, run the following:
```

```bash
make docserve
```

This will build the docs, spin up a static file server, and provide a URL to
where you may browse the documentation locally.

If you're comfortable viewing the documentation using the program your operating

> system has associated with the default web browser, run the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
system has associated with the default web browser, run the following:
```

Author: College textbooks do it like how I had it.

Reviewer: OK but that's inconsistant with the rest of the document…

Author: This is indeed consistent. It's a full sentence that stands on its own. The others do not stand on their own.
